---
layout: post
title: Forks. Decisions.
tags:
- thoughts
summary: 
---

Where you are today is the cumultive effect of a lifetime of decisions.
Actions. Reactions. Five years ago if you would&rsquo;ve asked me what I
would be doing for a living a year later and how I would be supporting
my family I would&vrsquo;ve had no clear answer for you.

Fast forward to 2011 and you will find me working at JR Motorsports
doing web design and front-end development on a rather mediocre level. I
had been pouring a very large portion of myself into this craft for the
previous three years learning all that I could.

Throughout this period of time I was on a bit of a personal search to
find what I loved to do and where I wanted to pour my energies. There
were moments when I thought I wanted to be a graphic designer for the
print industry. Make things like cool. Lipstick and control.

Then there were days where all I wanted to do was write HTML and CSS.
Then I started to get into interactions a bit more and play with jQuery.

So I come to a period where I need to choose a focus. I couldn&rsquo;t
decide between design and development. I loved&mdash;and still
love&mdash;them both.

## Jack of all Trades, Master of Many

My friend, [Bermon Painter](https://twitter.com/bermonpainter), was going
around giving this talk he called **Jack of all Trades, Master of
Many**. You can see the five minute lightning talk he gave at
IgniteCharlotte on
[YouTube](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jEoDiykT0MA) and follow along
with the slides on
[SpeakerDeck](https://speakerdeck.com/bermonpainter/jack-of-all-trades-master-of-many).

The argument Bermon lays out there is that within a years time, you can
be a good craftsman at anything. By applying yourself fully for a year,
you will have gained sufficient mastery to serve most purposes. The
**master** status is only a sliver more of the pie that you would spend
the rest of your life achieving.

I have recently come across a study by Anders Ericsson at the Berlin
Academy of Music on violin players. What they discovered was that to
become an average level violinist took 4000 hours of practice. One would
become qualified as a good violionist after 8000 hours, and after 10,000
hours the elite violinist would emerge.

Average, good and elite are terms of relativity and the surface
definitions will suffice for our purposes here.

Those time periods, in full-time work equal out to about 2 years, 4
years, and 5 years.

## Where Do You Want to Go?

To me this is wonderful news. 2011 was the best year ever for me. I
changed employers three times in order to land with the best in class,
Skookum. I now have spent the past 16 months pushing into the good level
of a front-end developer. And you know what? I love it! But I still get
the itch to design.

My design skills are wretched. But that&rsquo;s
okay. I know that when the time comes, just a couple years of hard work
and persistence and the fruits of the labor will be rewarded.

The destination isn&rsquo;t where you want to be. It&rsquo;s the
never-ending journey. The constant push and struggle and refining of
ourselves that makes life come alive.




